SECURING DATA WITH BLOCK CHAIN AND AI/
INTRODUCTION/
With the development of information technologies, the trend of integrating cyber, physical and social (CPS) systems to a highly unified information society, rather than just a digital Internet, is becoming increasing obvious. In such an information society, data is the asset of its owner, and its usage should be under the full control of its owner, although this is not the common case. Given data is undoubtedly the oil of the information society, almost every big company want to collect data as much as possible, for their future competitiveness. An increasing amount of personal data, including location information, web-searching behavior, user calls, user preference, is being silently collected by the built-in sensors inside the products from those big companies, which brings in huge risk on privacy leakage of data owners. Moreover, the usage of those data is out of control of their owners, since currently there is not a reliable way to record how the data is used and by who, and thus has little methods to trace or punish the violators who abuse those data. That is, lack of ability to effectively manage data makes it very difcult for an individual to control the potential risks associated with the collected data. For example, once the data has been collected by a third party (e.g., a big company), the lack of access to this data hinders an individual to understand or manage the risks related to the collected data from him. Meanwhile, the lack of immutable recording for the usage of data increases the risks to abuse them. If there is an efficient and trusted way to collect and merge the data scattered across the whole CPS to form real big data, the performance of artificial intelligence (AI) will be significantly improved since AI can handle massive amount of data including huge information at the same time, which would bring in great benefits (e.g., achieving enhanced security for data) and even makes AI gaining the ability to exceed human capabilities in more areas. According to the research, if given large amount of data in orders of magnitude more scale, even the simplest AI algorithm currently (e.g., perceptrons from the 1950s) can achieve fanciest performance to beat many state-of-the-art technologies today. The key lies in how to make data sharing trusted and secured. Fortunately, the blockchain technologies may be the promising way to achieve this goal, via consensus mechanisms throughout the network to guarantee data sharing in a tamper-proof way embedded with economic incentives.
